#This file was created by <vineyard> Fri Dec 22 11:55:59 2000
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy

\layout Section

Introduction to LabVIEW
\layout Standard

LabVIEW is an extremely powerful software system for building high-performance
 instrumentation and analysis applications.
 It integrates data acquisition, analysis, presentation, computation, simulation
, and modeling into one versatile package.
 LabVIEW applications are called virtual instruments (VIs) because they
 have the look and feel of actual instruments.
 The user interface is provided by the front panel which specifies the inputs
 and outputs with objects such as knobs, dials, switches, digital displays,
 graphs, and meters.
 The computers are furnished with data acquisition boards which equip LabVIEW
 for data acquisition and instrumentation.
 Transducers are used to convert physical quantities such as distance, force,
 temperature, and time into electrical signals that are read by the data
 acquisition boards.
 In this appendix, we will briefly describe how to run LabVIEW applications
 and how to use some of the features.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Running a VI
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

To run a VI: 1.
 Open the VI by double-clicking on the icon, or by launching LabVIEW, selecting
 Open from the File menu and then selecting the VI.
 2.
 Click the single arrow pointing to the right in the upper left-hand corner
 of the front panel.
 This arrow is called the Run button.
 The arrow will become filled while the VI is executing and will return
 to its original state when the VI is finished.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Changing the Value of a Digital Display 
\layout Standard

There are two ways to enter or change the value of a digital display.
 1.
 You can click inside the digital display window with the pointer and then
 enter numbers from the keyboard.
 The enter button appears to remind you that the new value replaces the
 old value only when you press the enter key on the keyboard or click outside
 the display window.
 2.
 You also can click on the increment buttons (little up and down arrows
 on the left side of the display window) with the pointer to change the
 least significant digit of the display.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Using Cursors
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

The cursor feature of LabVIEW graphs is very useful for determining numerical
 values from the graphs.
 To display the cursors, place the pointer in the graph window, press the
 apple key, and hold the mouse button down.
 This is called command-clicking .
 A pop-up menu will appear.
 Select Show and a submenu will appear.
 Select Display Cursors from this submenu.
 The cursor panel will appear.
 If the cursors do not appear in the graph window, click on the box next
 to the lock icon on the cursor panel.
 When you click on this box and hold the mouse button down, a submenu appears
 which can be used to change the cursor attributes or to center the cursors
 in the graph window.
 Each vertical cursor is teamed with a horizontal cursor, and a cursor marker
 appears where they intersect.
 The cursors can be dragged with the mouse to different positions on the
 graph and the coordinates of the cursors can be read from the cursor panel.
 You can hide the cursors with the same procedure used to show them.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Scaling Graphs
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

The graph scales may be setup for automatic scaling.
 When the AutoScale option is set, the scale limits and number of markers
 are computed with each graphing operation.
 When AutoScale is turned off, the scale remains the same with each graphing
 operation.
 To change the AutoScale option, command-click in the graph window and select
 the desired setting in the X Scale or Y Scale submenu.
\layout Standard

You can also change the limits for a particular graph manually by sweeping
 across the limit value with the mouse button depressed (the value will
 be highlighted) and typing the new value on the key board followed by the
 enter key.
 Limits set in this way will not be retained with each graphing operation.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Quitting LabVIEW
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

To exit LabVIEW, select Quit from the File menu and don t save anything
 if you are asked.
\the_end
