#This file was created by <vineyard> Tue Jan  2 09:01:21 2001
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy

\layout Section

Boyle's Law
\layout Standard

Name 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{2.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Section 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Date 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Objective
\layout Standard

To investigate the relationship between the pressure and volume of a gas.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Apparatus
\layout Itemize

Boyle's law apparatus
\layout Itemize

Barometer
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 288 301
file boyles_law_fig_1.eps
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\series bold 
Introduction
\layout Standard

The behavior of a gas can be described in terms of the macroscopic quantities:
 temperature (T), pressure (P), and volume (V).
 The relationship between these quantities is given by the equation of state
 of the gas.
 A real gas behaves approximately as an ideal gas if it is far from liquefaction.
 In that case, the equation of state of an ideal gas can be used to describe
 a real gas.
 For a given mass of a gas, if one of the quantities P, T, or V is changed,
 a change in the other two quantities probably will result.
 However, if one of the quantities is kept constant, the relationship between
 the other two can be studied.
 The relationship between pressure and volume of an ideal gas is called
 Boyle's law.
\layout Standard

The experimental apparatus is shown in the figure above.
 The gas is air contained in tube A between points a and c.
 The temperature of the gas will be that of the room and essentially constant.
 Between points c and b the tube contains mercury.
 The pressure of the gas is varied by raising or lowering the open tube
 B.
 The pressure is numerically equal to atmospheric pressure, in cm Hg, plus
 the difference in heights between points b and c (b - c).
 The volume of the enclosed gas is the product of the cross-sectional area
 of tube A and the distance between points a and c (a - c).
 Since the area is constant, the volume is proportional to the length (a
 - c) = L.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Note:
\series default 
 Do not tamper with the stopcock during the experiment and make all readings
 before doing the calculations.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 1: Relationship Between P and V of a Gas
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
(a) Determine and record in the space below the atmospheric pressure, P
\begin_inset Formula \( _{atm} \)
\end_inset 

, in cm Hg and the position of point a in cm.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 120mm 
(b) Construct a data table in the space below with the column headings:
 b (cm), c (cm), b - c (cm), L = a - c (cm), 1/L (cm
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{-1} \)
\end_inset 

), P (cm Hg), and PL (cm
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{2} \)
\end_inset 

 Hg).
\layout Standard

(c) Adjust the tube B so that b = c.
 Wait a few seconds for the gas to come to thermal equilibrium with the
 surroundings, and then record b and c in the data table.
\layout Standard

(d) Lower tube B about 3 cm.
 Again wait for thermal equilibrium, and then record points b and c in the
 table.
\layout Standard

(e) Repeat step (d) until B is at the lowest position at which the reading
 of points b and c can be obtained.
 Be careful that the hose is not pinched in these lower positions.
\layout Standard

(f) Now reverse the process.
 Raise B about 3 cm, wait for thermal equilibrium, and record points b and
 c in the table.
\layout Standard

(g) Repeat step (f) until b = c.
 If the final and initial positions at which b = c do not coincide, consult
 your instructor.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
(h) Calculate the total pressure P and the length of the gas column L (which
 is proportional to the volume of the gas in tube A) for each set of readings
 and enter these values in the table.
 Does inspection indicate how they are related? Explain.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
(i) Calculate and record the product PL for each set of readings.
 Also, determine the mean value and the standard deviation 
\begin_inset Formula \( \sigma  \)
\end_inset 

 for PL.
 Report the results below in the form PL = Mean 
\begin_inset Formula \( \pm \sigma  \)
\end_inset 

.
 What does this result tell you about the product PL? What does it tell
 you about the relationship between P and V? Explain.
\layout Standard

(j) Create a graph of P (y axis) versus 1/L and fit the data to find the
 mathematical relationship.
 Attach a copy of the graph to the unit.
 What does this tell you about the relationship between P and V? Explain.
\the_end
