#This file was created by <vineyard> Mon Jul 24 16:15:48 2000
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
appendix
\layout Section

Treatment of Experimental Data
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Recording Data 
\layout Standard

When performing an experiment, record all required original observations
 as soon as they are made.
 By "original observations" is meant what you actually see, not quantities
 found by calculation.
 For example, suppose you want to know the stretch of a coiled spring as
 caused by an added weight.
 You must read a scale both before and after the weight is added and then
 subtract one reading from the other to get the desired result.
 The proper scientific procedure is to record both readings as seen.
 Errors in calculations can be checked only if the original readings are
 on record.
\layout Standard

All data should be recorded with units.
 If several measurements are made of the same physical quantity, the data
 should be recorded in a table with the units reported in the column heading.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Significant Figures
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

A laboratory worker must learn to determine how many figures in any measurement
 or calculation are reliable, or "significant" (that is, have physical meaning),
 and should avoid making long calculations using figures which he/she could
 not possibly claim to know.
 
\shape italic 
All sure figures plus one estimated figure are considered significant.
\layout Standard

The measured diameter of a circle, for example, might be recorded to four
 significant figures, the fourth figure being in doubt, since it is an estimated
 fraction of the smallest division on the measuring apparatus.
 How this doubtful fourth figure affects the accuracy of the computed area
 can be seen from the following example.
\layout Standard

Assume for example that the diameter of the circle has been measured as
 .5264 cm, with the last digit being in doubt as indicated by the line under
 it.
 When this number is squared the result will contain eight digits, of which
 the last five are doubtful.
 Only one of the five doubtful digits should be retained, yielding a four-digit
 number as the final result.
\layout Standard

In the sample calculation shown below, each doubtful figure has a short
 line under it.
 Of course, each figure obtained from the use of a doubtful figure will
 itself be doubtful.
 The result of this calculation should be recorded as 0.2771 cm
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{2} \)
\end_inset 

, including the doubtful fourth figure.
 (The zero to the left of the decimal point is often used to emphasize that
 no significant figures precede the decimal point.
 This zero is not itself a significant figure.)
\layout Standard
\align center 
(.526
\bar under 
4
\bar default 
 cm)
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{2} \)
\end_inset 

 = .277
\bar under 
09696
\bar default 
 cm
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{2} \)
\end_inset 

 = 0.277
\bar under 
1
\bar default 
 cm
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{2} \)
\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\shape italic 
In multiplication and division, the rule is that a calculated result should
 contain the same number of significant figures as the least that were used
 in the calculation.
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
In addition and subtraction, do not carry a result beyond the first column
 that contains a doubtful figure.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Statistical Analysis
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

Any measurement is an intelligent estimation of the true value of the quantity
 being measured.
 To arrive at a "best value" we usually make several measurements of the
 same quantity and then analyze these measurements statistically.
 The results of such an analysis can be represented in several ways.
 Those in which we are most interested in this course are the following:
\layout Standard


\bar under 
Mean
\bar default 
 - The mean is the sum of a number of measurements of a quantity divided
 by the number of such measurements, which is just the arithmetic mean or
 the so-called average.
 It represents the most probable value of the measurement.
\layout Standard


\bar under 
Standard Deviation
\bar default 
 - The standard deviation (
\begin_inset Formula \( \sigma  \)
\end_inset 

) is a measure of the range on either side of the mean within which approximatel
y two-thirds of the measured values fall.
 For example, if the mean is 9.75 m/s
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{2} \)
\end_inset 

 and the standard deviation is 0.10 m/s
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{2} \)
\end_inset 

, then approximately two-thirds of the measured values lie within the range
 9.65 m/s
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{2} \)
\end_inset 

 to 9.85 m/s
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{2} \)
\end_inset 

.
 A customary way of expressing an experimentally determined value is: Mean
\begin_inset Formula \( \pm  \)
\end_inset 


\begin_inset Formula \( \sigma  \)
\end_inset 

, or (9.75
\begin_inset Formula \( \pm  \)
\end_inset 

 0.10) m/s
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{2} \)
\end_inset 

.
 Thus, the standard deviation is an indicator of the spread in the individual
 measurements, and a small 
\begin_inset Formula \( \sigma  \)
\end_inset 

 implies high precision.
 Also, it means that the probability of any future measurement falling in
 this range is approximately two to one.
 The equation for calculating the standard deviation is
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
\sigma =\sqrt{\frac{\Sigma \left( x_{i}-\left\langle x\right\rangle \right) ^{2}}{N-1}}\]

\end_inset 

 where 
\begin_inset Formula \( x_{i} \)
\end_inset 

 are the individual measurements, 
\begin_inset Formula \( \left\langle x\right\rangle  \)
\end_inset 

 is the mean, and N is the total number of measurements.
\layout Standard


\bar under 
% Difference
\bar default 
 - Often one wishes to compare the value of a quantity determined in the
 laboratory with the best known or "accepted value" of the quantity obtained
 through repeated determinations by a number of investigators.
 
\shape italic 
The % difference is calculated by subtracting the accepted value from your
 value, dividing by the accepted value, and multiplying by 100.

\shape default 
 If your value is greater than the accepted value, the % difference will
 be positive.
 If your value is less than the accepted value, the % difference will be
 negative.
 The % difference between two values in a case where neither is an accepted
 value can be calculated by choosing one as the accepted value.
\the_end
