#This file was created by <vineyard> Wed Jul 12 10:02:49 2000
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Section

Introduction to Cricket Graph
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
CA-Cricket Graph III
\shape default 
 is a powerful and easy-to-use application for graphing, fitting, and manipulati
ng data.
 In this appendix, we will briefly describe how to start 
\shape italic 
Cricket Graph
\shape default 
 and how to use the on-line help to obtain information about commands and
 features.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Starting Cricket Graph 
\layout Standard

To start the application, select the 
\shape italic 
CA-Cricket Graph III
\shape default 
 icon from the 
\series bold 
Apple
\series default 
 menu.
 A new, untitled data window appears where you can enter data.
 Other new data windows can be created by choosing 
\series bold 
New
\series default 
 from the 
\series bold 
File
\series default 
 menu.
 New data windows appear as Data #1, Data #2, and so on until you save and
 name them.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Using On-Line Help
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

On-line help provides immediate information about using key tools, commands,
 and features without exiting Graph III.
 To use on-line help: 
\layout Enumerate

Choose 
\series bold 
CA-Cricket Graph III Help...

\series default 
 from the 
\series bold 
Apple
\series default 
 menu.
 The Help window appears.
 On the left side of the window is a list of topics.
 
\layout Enumerate

To view the information for a particular topic, click the topic's name.
 The help information is displayed on the right side of the window.
 
\layout Enumerate

To view another topic, click the topic's name.
 
\layout Enumerate

To see additional topics in the list, use the scroll bar.
 
\layout Enumerate

To see the previous topic in the list, click the topic's name, or click
 the Previous button (up arrow).
 
\layout Enumerate

To see the next topic, click the topic's name, or the Next button (down
 arrow).
\layout Standard

If you can't locate a particular topic, you can look for a key word or phrase
 using the Search feature as follows: 
\layout Enumerate

Click the Search button (magnifying glass) in the Help window.
 The Search For dialog box appears.
 
\layout Enumerate

Enter the word or string you want to search for in the space provided.
 
\layout Enumerate

If you want the search to be case-sensitive (upper- or lower-case only,
 or a combination), click the Match Case check box.
 
\layout Enumerate

Click the OK button to begin the search.
 When the first occurrence of the word or string is found, it is highlighted.
 
\layout Enumerate

To find the next occurrence of the word or string, hold down the Option
 key and click the Search button (the Search For dialog box doesn't appear).
 The next occurrence of the word or string is highlighted in the Help window.
 
\layout Enumerate

When you're finished, click the close box.
\the_end
