#This file was created by <vineyard> Tue Jan  2 09:18:36 2001
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy

\layout Section

Electric Fields and Equipotential Lines
\layout Standard

Name 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{2.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Section 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Date 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Objective
\layout Itemize

To learn the shape of electric fields.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Introduction
\layout Standard

Charged objects exert an electrical force on other charged objects in proportion
 to the amount of charge each has, just as massive objects exert a gravitational
 force on one another in proportion to their masses.
 The magnitudes of both forces depend, too, on the distance between objects.
 However, whereas the gravitational force is always attractive, electrical
 forces may be either attractive or repulsive depending on the sign of the
 charges.
 It is convenient in understanding the nature of electrical forces to draw
 pictures of them.
 We represent the fields, which provide the magnitude and direction of the
 forces, as lines.
 We agree on a convention: the direction of the field is that of the force
 on an infinitesimal positive test charge.
 Thus, the lines of force originate on and come out of positive charges
 and are directed toward and terminate on negative charges (see figure below).
 The magnitude of the field, and therefore the force, is proportional to
 the density of the field lines.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 293 122
file ef_equipot_lines_fig_1.eps
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Please note that when the situation is electrostatic, 1) the electric field
 within a metal is zero, and 2) the electric field just outside the surface
 of a metal is perpendicular to the surface.
 If either of these conditions were altered, then there would be an electric
 current in the metal, which is not an electrostatic situation.
 Because an electric field represents a force, work must be done to move
 a charged object along any of the field lines.
 Such work is defined to be the potential difference between the original
 and final points of movement along the lines of force.
 On the other hand, movement perpendicular to the field lines requires no
 work.
 Such movement is said to be along an equipotential line.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 126 126
file ef_equipot_lines_fig_2.eps
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

In the figure above, the electric field for a positive point charge is shown
 as lines with arrows.
 The regions of equipotential (equipotential lines) are shown with circles.
 Notice that the equipotential lines are perpendicular to the electric field
 lines and that the density of equipotential lines is proportional to the
 electric field strength.
\layout Standard

Electric field lines are difficult to measure directly, but potentials can
 be measured with a voltmeter.
 An electric field will arise in the space surrounding two separated charged
 conductors.
 With one lead of a voltmeter connected to one of the conductors and the
 other used as a probe, the potentials can be determined (see figure below).
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 535 189
file ef_equipot_lines_fig_3.eps
width 3 90
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\series bold 
Apparatus
\layout Itemize

Power supply
\layout Itemize

Voltmeter
\layout Itemize

Conducting sheets
\layout Itemize

Carbon and white paper
\layout Itemize

Wooden board and pins
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 1: Field Lines for Two Point Charges
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 1in 

\series bold 
Prediction:
\series default 
 Using the rules given in the introduction and given in the first set of
 figures, draw the electric lines for two oppositely charged point objects.
 Sketch the equipotential lines.
\layout Enumerate

Find the conducting paper with the two silver circles on the front and lay
 it over a copy carbon and a sheet of paper on top of the wooden board.
\layout Enumerate

Connect the positive output of the power supply to one of the circles and
 the negative to the other.
\layout Enumerate

Connect the negative lead of the voltmeter to the negative conductor and
 use the positive lead as the probe.
 
\layout Enumerate

With the power supply voltage turned on and set to 10 volts, probe lightly
 with the voltmeter to find a number of points on the carbon paper registering
 9 volts.
 Push down each time you find a point so that marks will be made on the
 bottom paper.
\layout Enumerate

Repeat for 8 volts and so on to 1 volt.
\layout Enumerate

You should end up with a series of dots on your sheet of paper.
 Connect those associated with the same potential with smooth lines.
\layout Enumerate

Recalling the relationship between electric field lines and equipotential
 lines, sketch in the electric field lines.
 (
\emph on 
Other group members can sketch copies of the same results.
\emph default 
)
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Does your experimental result agree with your prediction? Explain.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 2: Field Lines for Parallel Plates
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 1in 

\series bold 
Prediction:
\series default 
 Draw what you think the field lines and equipotential lines between parallel
 plates will look like.
\layout Enumerate

Carry out the instructions from Activity 1 to check your prediction.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Does your result agree with your prediction? Explain.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 3: Field Lines Between a Point Charge and a Plate
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 1in 

\series bold 
Prediction:
\series default 
 Draw what you think the field lines and equipotential lines between a point
 charge and a parallel plate will look like.
\layout Enumerate

Map the field lines as before.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Does your result agree with your prediction? Explain.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
If the potential is zero, must the electric field be zero as well?
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
What can you say about the electric field along an equipotential line?
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 4: Field Lines for a Plate and a Charged Circle
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 1in 

\series bold 
Prediction:
\series default 
 Sketch what you think the field and potential lines between a point charge
 and a plate look like.
\layout Enumerate

Determine the field lines.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
What is the field strength within a charged, continuous surface?
\the_end
