#This file was created by <vineyard> Tue Jan  2 09:23:03 2001
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy

\layout Section

The Electric Potential
\begin_float footnote 
\layout Standard

1990-93 Dept.
 of Physics and Astronomy, Dickinson College.
 Supported by FIPSE (U.S.
 Dept.
 of Ed.) and NSF.
 Portions of this material may have been modified locally and may not have
 been classroom tested at Dickinson College.
\end_float 
\layout Standard

Name 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{2.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Section 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Date 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Overview
\layout Standard

It takes work to lift an object in the earth's gravitational field.
 Lowering the object releases the energy that was stored as potential energy
 when it was lifted.
 Last semester, we applied the term 
\emph on 
conservative
\emph default 
 to the gravitational force because it 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

releases
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 
\bar under 
all
\bar default 
 of the stored energy.
 We found experimentally that the work required to move a mass in the gravitatio
nal field was path independent.
 This is an important property of any conservative force.
 Given the mathematical similarity between the Coulomb force and the gravitation
al force, it should come as no surprise that experiments confirm that an
 electric field is also conservative.
 This means that the work needed to move a charge from point A to point
 B is independent of the path taken between points.
 A charge could be moved directly between the two points or looped around
 and the work expended to take either path would be the same.
 Work done by an electric field on a test charge q traveling between points
 A and B is given by
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset Formula \( W=\int ^{B}_{A} \)
\end_inset 


\begin_inset Formula \( \overrightarrow{F}\cdot d\overrightarrow{s}=\int ^{B}_{A}q\overrightarrow{E}\cdot d\overrightarrow{s} \)
\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 1: Word Done on a Charge Traveling in a Uniform Electric Field
\layout Standard

(a) A charge q travels a distance d from point A to point B; the path is
 parallel to a uniform electric field of magnitude E.
 What is the work done by the field on the charge? How does the form of
 this equation compare to the work done on a mass m traveling a distance
 d in the almost uniform gravitational field near the surface of the earth?
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 119 130
file electric_potential_fig_1.eps
width 3 20
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

(b) The charge q travels a distance d from point A to point B in a uniform
 electric field of magnitude E, but this time the path is perpendicular
 to the field lines.
 What is the work done by the field on the charge?
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 119 130
file electric_potential_fig_2.eps
width 3 20
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 10mm 
(c) The charge q travels a distance d from point A to point B in a uniform
 electric field of magnitude E.
 The path lies at a 45
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{\circ } \)
\end_inset 

 angle to the field lines.
 What is the work done by the field on the charge?
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 119 130
file electric_potential_fig_3.eps
width 3 20
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\series bold 
Potential Energy and Potential Difference
\layout Standard

Recall that by definition the work done by a conservative force equals the
 negative of the change in potential energy, so that the change in potential
 energy of a charge moving from point A to point B under the influence of
 an electrical force is given by:
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset Formula \( \Delta E_{pot}=E_{pot,B}-E_{pot,A}=-\int ^{B}_{A}q\overrightarrow{E}\cdot d\overrightarrow{s} \)
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

By analogy to the definition of the electric field, we are interested in
 defining the 
\emph on 
electric potential difference
\emph default 
 
\begin_inset Formula \( \Delta V=V_{B}-V_{A} \)
\end_inset 

 as the change in electric potential energy 
\begin_inset Formula \( \Delta E_{pot} \)
\end_inset 

 per unit charge.
 Formally, 
\emph on 
the potential difference is defined as the work per unit charge that an
 external agent must perform to move a test charge from A to B without changing
 its kinetic energy
\emph default 
.
 The potential difference has units of joules per coulomb.
 Since 1 J/C is defined as one 
\emph on 
volt
\emph default 
, the potential difference is often referred to as 
\emph on 
voltage
\emph default 
.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 2: The Equation for Potential Difference
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Write the equation for potential difference as a function of 
\begin_inset Formula \( \overrightarrow{E} \)
\end_inset 

, 
\begin_inset Formula \( d\overrightarrow{s} \)
\end_inset 

, A, and B.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
The Potential Difference for a Point Charge
\layout Standard

The simplest charge configuration that can be used to consider how voltage
 changes between two points in space is a single point charge.
 We will start by considering a single point charge and then move on to
 more complicated configurations of charge.
\layout Standard

A point charge q produces an electric field that moves out radially in all
 directions.
 The line integral equation for the potential difference can be evaluated
 to find the potential difference between any two points in space A and
 B (a line integral is one that follows a path through space).
\layout Standard

It is common to choose the reference point for the determination of voltage
 to be set at infinity so that we are determining the work per unit charge
 that is required to bring a test charge from infinity to a certain point
 in space.
 Let's choose a coordinate system so that the point charge is conveniently
 located at the origin.
 In this case we will be interested in the potential difference between
 infinity and some point which is a distance r from the point charge.
 Thus, we can write the equation for the potential difference, or voltage,
 as
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset Formula \( \Delta V=V_{B}-V_{A}=V_{r}-V_{\infty }=-\int ^{r}_{\infty }\overrightarrow{E}\cdot d\overrightarrow{s} \)
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Often, when the reference point for the potential difference is at infinity,
 this difference is simply referred to as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

the potential
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, and the symbol 
\begin_inset Formula \( \Delta V \)
\end_inset 

 is just replaces with the symbol V.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 3: Potential at a Distance r from a Charge
\layout Standard

Starting from the expression for the electric field of a point charge, show
 that, if A is at infinity and B is a distance r from a point charge q,
 then the potential V is given by the expression
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset Formula \( V=\frac{kq}{r} \)
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

where 
\begin_inset Formula \( k=\frac{1}{4\pi \varepsilon _{\circ }} \)
\end_inset 

= 8.99 x 10
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{9} \)
\end_inset 

 Nm
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{2} \)
\end_inset 

/ C
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{2} \)
\end_inset 

.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 238 197
file electric_potential_fig_4.eps
width 3 40
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 30mm 

\series bold 
Hint: 
\series default 
What is the mathematical expression for an E-field from a point charge?
\layout Standard


\series bold 
The Potential Difference Due to Continuous Charge Distributions
\layout Standard

The potential from a continuous charge distribution can be calculated several
 ways.
 Each method should yield approximately the same result.
 First, we can use an integral method in which the potential dV from each
 element of charge dq is integrated mathematically to give a total potential
 at the location of interest.
 Second, we can approximate the value of the potential V by summing up several
 finite elements of charge 
\begin_inset Formula \( \Delta q \)
\end_inset 

 by using a computer spreadsheet or hand calculations.
\layout Standard

Again, let's consider a relatively simple charge distribution.
 In this case we will look at a ring with charge uniformly distributed on
 it.
 We will calculate the potential on the axis passing through the center
 of the ring as shown in the diagram below.
 (Later on you could find the potential difference from a disk or a sheet
 of charge by considering a collection of nested rings).
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 303 171
file electric_potential_fig_5.eps
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard
\added_space_top 2in \added_space_bottom 30mm 
A ring of charge has a total charge of Q = 20
\begin_inset Formula \( \mu  \)
\end_inset 

C (i.e.
 20 x 10
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{-6} \)
\end_inset 

 C).
 The radius of the ring, a, is 30 cm.
 We want to find the electric field an the electric potential at a distance
 of x cm from the ring along an axis that is perpendicular to the ring and
 passes through its center.
 Let's begin by calculating the potential.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Hints:
\series default 
 Since the potential is a scalar and not a vector we can calculate the potential
 at point P (relative to 
\begin_inset Formula \( \infty  \)
\end_inset 

) for each of the charge elements 
\begin_inset Formula \( \Delta q \)
\end_inset 

 and add them to each other.
 This looks like a big deal but it is actually a trivial problem because
 all the charge elements are the same distance from point P.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 4: Numerical Estimate of the Potential from a Charged Ring
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 1.5in 
(a) Divide the ring into 20 elements of charge 
\begin_inset Formula \( \Delta q \)
\end_inset 

 and calculate the total V at a distance of x = 20 cm from the center of
 the ring using a spreadsheet program or by hand calculation.
 Summarize the result below.
 Be sure to attach a printout of your spreadsheet results.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 5: Calculation of the Potential from a Charged Ring
\layout Standard

By following the steps below, you can use an integral to find a more exact
 value of the potential.
\layout Standard

(a) Show that
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset Formula \( V=k\int \frac{dq}{r}=k\int \frac{dq}{\sqrt{x^{2}+a^{2}}} \)
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

(b) Show that
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset Formula \( k\int \frac{dq}{\sqrt{x^{2}+a^{2}}}=\frac{k}{\sqrt{x^{2}+a^{2}}}\int dq \)
\end_inset 


\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 40mm 
(i.e.
 show that 
\begin_inset Formula \( \sqrt{x^{2}+a^{2}} \)
\end_inset 

 is a constant and thus can be pulled out of the integral).
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 25mm 
(c) Perform the integration in part (b) above.
 Then substitute values for a, x, and Q into the resulting expression in
 order to obtain a more 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

exact
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 value for the potential.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
(d) How does the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

numerical
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 value that you obtained in Activity 4 compare with the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

exact
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 value you obtained in (c)?
\layout Standard

Now let's take a completely different approach to the same problem.
 If we can find the vector equation for the electric field at point P due
 to the ring of charge, then we can use the expression
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset Formula \( \Delta V=V_{r}-V_{\infty }=-\int ^{r}_{\infty }\overrightarrow{E}\cdot d\overrightarrow{s} \)
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

as an alternative way to find a general equation for the potential at point
 P.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 313 171
file electric_potential_fig_6.eps
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 6: 
\begin_inset Formula \( \Delta  \)
\end_inset 

V from a Ring Using the E-field Method
\layout Standard

(a) Starting from the electric field of a point charge, show that the electric
 field at point P from the charged ring is given by
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset Formula \( \overrightarrow{E}=\frac{kqx}{(x^{2}+a^{2})^{3/2}}\hat{x} \)
\end_inset 


\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 30mm 

\series bold 
Hints:
\series default 
 (1) Why is there no y component of the E-field? (2) 
\begin_inset Formula \( \cos \theta =\frac{x}{\sqrt{x^{2}+a^{2}}} \)
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

(b) To find 
\begin_inset Formula \( \Delta  \)
\end_inset 

V use the following equation.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 30mm \align center 

\begin_inset Formula \( \Delta V=V_{r}-V_{\infty }=-\int ^{r}_{\infty }\overrightarrow{E}\cdot d\overrightarrow{s} \)
\end_inset 


\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
(c) How does the result compare to that obtained in Activity 5 (c)?
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Equipotential Surfaces
\layout Standard

Sometimes it is possible to move along a surface without doing any work.
 Thus, it is possible to remain at the same potential energy anywhere along
 such a surface.
 If an electric charge can travel along a surface without doing any work,
 the surface is called an 
\emph on 
equipotential surface
\emph default 
.
\layout Standard

Consider the three different charge configurations shown below.
 Where are the equipotential surfaces? What shapes do they have?
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Hint:
\series default 
 If you have any computer simulations available to you for drawing equipotential
 lines associated with electrical charges, you may want to check your guesses
 against the patterns drawn in one or more of the simulations.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 7: Sketches of Electric Field Lines and Equipotentials
\layout Standard

(a) Suppose that you are a test charge and you start moving at some distance
 from the charge below (such as 4 cm).
 What path could you move along without doing any work, i.e.
 
\begin_inset Formula \( \overrightarrow{E}\cdot d\overrightarrow{s} \)
\end_inset 

 is always zero? What is the shape of the equipotential surface? Remember
 that in general you can move in 
\emph on 
three
\emph default 
 dimensions.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 89 89
file electric_potential_fig_7.eps
width 4 30
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

(b) Find some equipotential surfaces for the charge configuration shown
 below, which consists of two charged metal plates placed parallel to each
 other.
 What is the shape of the equipotential surfaces?
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 166 175
file electric_potential_fig_8.eps
width 3 28
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

(c) Find some equipotential surfaces for the electric dipole charge configuratio
n shown below.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 148 96
file electric_potential_fig_9.eps
width 3 25
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
(d) In general, what is the relationship between the direction of the equipotent
ial lines you have drawn (representing that part of the equipotential surface
 that lies in the plane of the paper) and the direction of the electric
 field lines?
\the_end
