#This file was created by <vineyard> Tue Jan  2 15:52:00 2001
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy

\layout Section

Electromagnetic Induction
\layout Standard

Name 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{2.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Section 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Date 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Objectives
\layout Standard

To investigate:
\layout Itemize

The effect of magnetic fields on moving charges.
 
\layout Itemize

The effect of changing magnetic fields on charge.
\layout Itemize

The effect of changing currents on magnetic fields.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Introduction
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

A charged object moving through a magnetic field experiences a force which
 is proportional to the magnitude of its charge and to its speed perpendicular
 to the field: 
\latex latex 
$F = qvB_
\backslash 
perp$
\latex default 
.
 Changing the number of magnetic field lines--the flux--through a coil of
 wire results in a current in the wire.
 The direction of this current is such that the magnetic field it produces
 opposes the change in the external field.
 Similarly, varying the current in one coil (the primary) produces a current
 in another nearby coil (the secondary).
 The current in the second coil, too, will flow in a direction that creates
 a magnetic field opposing that which is changing in the first coil.
 These relationships between changing fields and currents are known collectively
 as electromagnetic induction.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Apparatus
\series default 
 
\layout Itemize

signal generator 
\layout Itemize

two coils, one large, one small 
\layout Itemize

bar magnet
\layout Itemize

oscilloscope
\layout Itemize

LabVIEW software (EM Induction VI)
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 1: Magnetic Forces on Moving Charges 
\layout Enumerate

Turn on the oscilloscope by pressing the power button.
 Turn the TIME/DIV knob completely counterclockwise.
 Adjust the INTEN (intensity) and FOCUS knobs so that a small bright spot
 is formed on the oscilloscope screen by the beam of electrons traveling
 toward you.
 Adjust the ILLUM (illumination) knob so that the grid on the screen can
 be seen clearly.
 Use the horizontal and vertical POSITION controls to center the spot on
 the screen.
\layout Enumerate


\series bold 
Note
\series default 
: An oscilloscope is built around the principle of the cathode ray tube.
 It emits electrons from its back end.
 These are accelerated by a series of electrodes and focussed to strike
 a fluorescent screen at its front.
 The result is a visible trace identifying voltage as a function of time.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 30mm 

\series bold 
Predictions
\series default 
: What, if anything, will happen to the spot on the screen if the north
 pole of a magnet is brought near the left side of the oscilloscope? What
 will happen if you do the same with the south pole? What about when each
 of the poles are brought near to the top? [Please do not touch the oscilloscope
 with the magnet.] 
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
Bring the N-pole of a horizontal bar magnet near, but not touching, the
 left side of the oscilloscope case at the height of the spot.
 Record the direction of any deflection.
 Repeat with the S-pole.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
Bring the N-pole of a vertical bar magnet near, but not touching, the top
 of the oscilloscope cast just above the spot.
 Record the direction of any deflection.
 Repeat with the S-pole.
\layout Enumerate

Turn off the oscilloscope.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Did the directions of deflections meet your expectations? Explain.
 
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 2: A Moving Magnet and a Coil
\layout Enumerate

Turn on the computer and launch the EM Induction virtual instrument (VI)in
 the 132 Workshop folder in the Apple menu.
\layout Enumerate

Move the large coil as far as possible away from the small one.
\layout Enumerate

Place a bar magnet vertically along the axis of the small coil with the
 N-pole touching the coil.
\layout Enumerate

Start the VI and lift the bar magnet quickly straight up.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 10mm 
At the end of the data taking interval, the computer should display a value
 for the electromotive force (emf) induced in the small coil.
 Several trials may be required to get the correct timing between starting
 the VI and removing the magnet.
 Note and record the sign of the induced emf.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 

\series bold 
Prediction
\series default 
: If you lower the magnet, N-pole down, quickly toward the coil, what will
 be the sign of the emf? 
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 10mm 
Carry out the experiment, starting the VI, then lowering the magnet.
 Record the sign of the induced emf.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Did your result confirm or refute your prediction?
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 

\series bold 
Prediction
\series default 
: What will happen to the emf if you perform the same pair of experiments
 with the S-pole toward the coil? 
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 10mm 
Perform the two experiments, lifting and lowering the magnet, with the S-pole
 down.
 Record the sign of the induced emf in each case.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
How did the results compare with your predictions?
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 3: Two Coils and a Varying Current
\layout Enumerate

With the large coil laying flat on the table, place the small coil at its
 center so that the axes of the coils coincide.
 Be sure no magnets are near either coil.
\layout Enumerate

Set the signal generator FREQUENCY knob to the 2K-20K position and the frequency
 dial to 40.
 In other words, set the frequency to 4 kHz.
 Set the function switch to SINE, the OUTPUT (VOLT P-P) RANGE knob at 10
 and the LEVEL knob at mid-range.
 Turn on the generator
\layout Enumerate

Run the VI.
 Two sine curves will be displayed: the red one is the voltage signal being
 supplied to the large coil by the generator.
 The blue curve is the emf induced in the small coil by the varying current
 in the large coil.
 Note the amplitude of the induced current and the phase relationship between
 the two curves.
 Ypu may have to adjust the number of scans and scan rate to get good traces
 of the signals.
\layout Enumerate

Tilt the small coil to 
\latex latex 
$45^
\backslash 
circ$
\latex default 
 with the vertical, keeping the coil at the center of the large coil.
 While holding the small coil in this position, run the VI and note the
 amplitude of the induced current and the phase relationship between the
 curves.
\layout Enumerate

Repeat for rotations of 
\latex latex 
$90^
\backslash 
circ$
\latex default 
 and 
\latex latex 
$180^
\backslash 
circ$
\latex default 
, again noting the amplitude and phase relationship.
 
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
What can you conclude about the orientation of the secondary relative to
 the primary in terms of the response of the secondary to a varying current
 in the primary? Can you explain this? 
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Move the coil to different positions inside and outside the large coil.
 Run the VI for each position and note changes in amplitude and phase of
 the induced emf in the small coil.
 
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Do your results support your explanation given in the previous question?
 Justify your response.
\the_end
