#This file was created by <vineyard> Tue Jan  2 10:18:58 2001
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy

\layout Section

The Electric Field of the Atomic Nucleus
\layout Standard

Name 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{2.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Section 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Date 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Introduction
\layout Standard

In this exercise you will make a theoretical investigation of the electric
 field associated with the atomic nucleus.
 Our current understanding of the nucleus is the product of scattering experimen
ts where a projectile (e.g.
 an electron, photon, or even another nucleus) is given an initial kinetic
 energy and collides with a target nucleus (see figure below).
 
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 267 175
file electric_field_atomic_nuleus_fig_1.eps
width 3 45
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

The final energies and velocities of the products of the reaction are then
 measured and the nature of the interaction is inferred.
 There are several important features of the nucleus that can be learned
 from these experiments:
\layout Enumerate

The nucleus is small, about 100,000 times smaller than the atom itself.
\layout Enumerate

Most of the matter and all of the positive charge is located in this tiny
 object.
\layout Enumerate

There exists a force, called the strong force, that is attractive, acts
 only within the volume of the nucleus, and is powerful enough to overcome
 the repulsion between the positive charges concentrated in the nucleus.
 
\layout Standard

Below you will calculate the electric field of the 
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{208} \)
\end_inset 

Pb nucleus and the force between an incident proton and 
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{208} \)
\end_inset 

Pb.
 You will also calculate the work necessary to penetrate the nucleus.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 1: The Electric Field of 
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{208} \)
\end_inset 

Pb
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 30mm 
(a) From scattering experiments like those described above one finds that
 the positive charge of 
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{208} \)
\end_inset 

Pb is uniformly distributed throughout the volume of the nucleus, which
 can be treated as a sphere of radius 7.11 x 10
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{-15} \)
\end_inset 

 m or in units common to nuclear physics, 7.11 fm, where 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

fm
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 is known as a fermi.
 Calculate the total charge, Q, of the 
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{208} \)
\end_inset 

Pb nucleus.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 30mm 
(b) Calculate the volume charge density, 
\begin_inset Formula \( \rho  \)
\end_inset 

, of the 
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{208} \)
\end_inset 

Pb nucleus.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 2in 
(c) Starting with Gauss' Law, generate an expression for the electric field,
 
\series bold 
E
\series default 
, outside of the 
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{208} \)
\end_inset 

Pb nucleus as a function of r, the distance from the center of the sphere.
 Show and explain each step of the calculation.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 2in 
(d) Use Gauss' Law to find an expression for 
\series bold 
E
\series default 
 inside the nucleus as a function of r.
 Show and explain each step of the calculation.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 3in 
(e) Construct a data table with the column headings r (fm), E (N/C), and
 F (N) in the space below.
 Then use the expressions you derived above to calculate the electric field
 for at least ten radial positions between 0 and 20 fm and enter the results
 in the table.
 Include 7.11 fm as one of your radial positions.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 2: The force on a Proton
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
(a) Consider a head-on collision between a proton and the 
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{208} \)
\end_inset 

Pb nucleus.
 Generate an expression for the force on the proton as a function of r outside
 the lead nucleus.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 1in \added_space_bottom 30mm 
(b) Calculate an expression for the force on the proton as a function of
 r inside the lead nucleus.
\layout Standard

(c) Use these expressions to calculate the force at the same radial positions
 you calculated E and enter the results in the table.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 10mm 
(d) Graph F (y axis) vs.
 r and attach a copy to the unit.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 3: The Work Done by the Field
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 40mm 
(a) Recall that the work done by a force is 
\begin_inset Formula \( W=\int ^{r_{f}}_{r_{i}}\overrightarrow{F}\cdot d\overrightarrow{s} \)
\end_inset 

 where r
\begin_inset Formula \( _{i} \)
\end_inset 

 and r
\begin_inset Formula \( _{f} \)
\end_inset 

 are the initial and final positions of the object in motion.
 Treat the 
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{208} \)
\end_inset 

Pb nucleus as a fixed target and calculate the work done by the Coulomb
 force on the proton if the proton approaches from infinity and reaches
 the surface of the lead nucleus.
 Show all work.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
(b) We know that the nuclear force binds particles like neutrons and protons
 together once they enter the nucleus.
 From the graph of the force as a function of position, what is the minimum
 strength of the nuclear force in 
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{208} \)
\end_inset 

Pb that will bind the proton in the nucleus? Clearly state your reasoning.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
(c) Consider a proton that has just enough initial kinetic energy to move
 from infinitely far away and just reach the surface of the lead nucleus.
 How is the initial kinetic energy related to the work done by the field?
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
(d) How would the trajectory of the proton be affected if the kinetic energy
 is less?
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
(e) How would the trajectory of the proton be affected if the kinetic energy
 is greater?
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
(f) What minimum kinetic energy is needed for a proton to probe the nucleus?
 Explain.
\the_end
