#This file was created by <vineyard> Tue Jan  2 15:10:14 2001
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy

\layout Section

Heat of Vaporization of Nitrogen
\layout Standard

Name 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{2.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Section 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Date 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Objective
\layout Standard

To measure the heat of vaporization of nitrogen.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Apparatus
\layout Itemize

Force probe
\layout Itemize

Lab stand
\layout Itemize

Styrofoam cup
\layout Itemize

Liquid nitrogen
\layout Itemize

Power resistor
\layout Itemize

Power supply
\layout Itemize

Digital voltmeter
\layout Itemize

Ammeter (0-3 A)
\layout Itemize

Wires
\layout Itemize


\shape italic 
DataStudio
\shape default 
 Software (NitrogenVap)
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 297 217
file heat_vap_nit_fig_1.eps
width 3 50
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\series bold 
Introduction
\layout Standard

The experimental setup is shown in the figure above.
 The styrofoam cup is filled with liquid nitrogen.
 The force transducer is used as an electronic balance to measure the mass
 of the liquid nitrogen as a function of time.
 The power resistor submerged in the liquid nitrogen converts electrical
 energy into heat.
 The power, or rate at which electrical energy is converted to heat, is
 monitored with a voltmeter and an ammeter.
 (Note: Power supply and meters to monitor power are not shown in the figure.)
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 1: Measuring the Heat of Vaporization of Nitrogen
\layout Standard

(a) Perform the following steps:
\layout Enumerate

Remove the load from the force probe and press the TARE button.
\layout Enumerate

Adjust the power resistor so that it is as far down in the cup as possible
 without pushing down on the cup.
\layout Enumerate

Fill the cup with liquid nitrogen.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 1in 
Turn on the power supply and the voltmeter.
 Adjust the voltage and current controls on the power supply so that the
 ammeter reads a current of 2.0 A.
 Record the values of the current, I, and the voltage, V, in the space below.
 Then turn off the power supply and refill the cup with liquid nitrogen
 if necessary.
\layout Enumerate

Open the 
\shape italic 
NitrogenVap
\shape default 
 application in the 132 Workshop folder in the Apple menu.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 0.75in 
The computer will measure the output of the force transducer every second.
 Start collecting data by clicking on the Start button and recording the
 force versus time for at least four minutes.
 When you are finished make a linear fit to the data using the Fit menu.
 The slope is related to the rate of evaporation of the liquid nitrogen.
 Calculate the rate of mass loss from this measured slope and enter the
 result in the space below.
 Print the graph of force versus time and attach a copy to the unit.
 
\layout Enumerate

Turn on the power supply and repeat step 6.
\layout Enumerate

Turn off the power supply and repeat step 6.
\layout Standard

(b) Subtract the average of the absolute values of the two slopes when power
 was off from the absolute value of the slope when power was on.
 This is the net rate of evaporation caused by the energy supplied to the
 heater.
\layout Standard

(c) Calculate the heat of vaporization, L
\begin_inset Formula \( _{v} \)
\end_inset 

, which is given by
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 30mm \align center 
L
\begin_inset Formula \( _{v} \)
\end_inset 

 = 
\begin_inset Formula \( \frac{power\: to\: heater}{net\, rate\: of\: evaporation} \)
\end_inset 

= 
\begin_inset Formula \( \frac{VI}{net\, rate\: of\: evaporation} \)
\end_inset 


\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
(d) Look up the accepted value for the heat of vaporization of nitrogen
 and calculate the percent difference.
 Do the two values agree within experimental uncertainties? Comment on possible
 sources of error.
\layout Standard

(e) Was the temperature of the liquid nitrogen changing during this experiment?
 Explain.
\the_end
