#This file was created by <vineyard> Tue Jan  2 10:43:22 2001
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy

\layout Section

Magnetism II
\layout Standard

Name 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{2.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Section 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Date 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Objective
\layout Itemize

To investigate the magnetic field around a permanent magnet.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Introduction
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

The magnetic field is the region surrounding a magnet in which forces due
 to the magnet are measurable.
 At a given point in the region, the strength of the field, similar to that
 of an electric field, is the force per unit north pole (one positive unit
 of magnetism), and the direction is indicated by the orientation of the
 north pole of a compass located at the point.
 On earth, the field mapped out around the magnet is actually the resultant
 of the field due to the magnet and the field due to the earth.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Apparatus
\layout Itemize

2 bar magnets 
\layout Itemize

small compass 
\layout Itemize

white paper and tape
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 1: A Single Bar Magnet
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 267 144
file magnetism_2_fig_1.eps
width 3 45
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Enumerate

Center and tape a bar magnet on a piece of paper and orient it so that the
 magnet's south pole points to the earth's geographic north pole.
 Indicate the magnet's polarity and the direction of the earth's field.
\layout Enumerate

Place the small compass near the north pole of the magnet and make a dot
 at each end of the needle using a pencil not encased in metal.
\layout Enumerate

Move the compass forward until its south pole points at the previous north
 pole dot, and make a new dot at the north pole.
\layout Enumerate

Repeat 3 until the series of dots reaches the south pole of the magnet or
 the edge of the paper.
\layout Enumerate

In a similar manner, trace enough lines to map the magnetic field over the
 entire paper.
 Take points about 0.5 cm apart near the poles and about 2 cm apart near
 the middle of the magnet.
\layout Enumerate

There are two points, called neutral points, near each end of the magnet
 where the magnet's field and the earth's field are equal and opposite and
 so cancel.
 At these points, the compass will align in no particular direction.
 Try to locate these points by tracing very carefully the lines of force
 in the neighborhood of the poles.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Do lines of force ever cross?
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Where are the magnetic forces strongest? Weakest? How do the force lines
 indicate this? Does a line of force represent a constant force along its
 entire length?
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Do the lines intersect the magnet at a particular angle (like the electric
 field lines near a conductor)? What does this imply about the source of
 a magnetic field as opposed to the surface charge of a conductor as the
 source of an electric field? 
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 2: Two Bar Magnets--Unlike Poles Facing One Another
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 267 143
file magnetism_2_fig_2.eps
width 3 45
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Enumerate

Set up two bar magnets on a sheet of paper as shown in the figure above.
 The magnets should be 8-10 cm apart.
\layout Enumerate

Repeat steps 2 through 5 from the previous activity.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
What sort of charge configuration produces an electric field that looks
 similar to the magnetic field you just identified?
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
What differences can you recognize?
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 25mm 

\series bold 
Activity 3: Two Bar Magnets--Like Poles Facing One Another
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 267 143
file magnetism_2_fig_3.eps
width 3 45
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Enumerate

Set up two bar magnets on a sheet of paper as shown in the figure above.
 The magnets should be 8-10 cm apart.
\layout Enumerate

Repeat steps 2 through 5 from Activity 1 of this investigation.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Try to identify on your map a point at which the magnetic field is zero.
 Explain what causes this effect.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
What sort of electric charge configuration would produce a similar field
 map?
\the_end
