#This file was created by <vineyard> Tue Jan  2 15:07:57 2001
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy

\layout Section

Calorimetry
\layout Standard

Name 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{2.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Section 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Date 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Purpose
\layout Itemize

To learn to use a method for measuring heat called calorimetry.
\layout Itemize

To use calorimetry to determine the specific heat of aluminum and the heat
 of fusion of ice.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Apparatus
\layout Itemize

Hypsometer and stand 
\layout Itemize

Bunsen burner 
\layout Itemize

Aluminum pellets 
\layout Itemize

Ice 
\layout Itemize

Triple-beam balance 
\layout Itemize

100
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{\circ } \)
\end_inset 

 C thermometer or temperature meter
\layout Itemize

Temperature probe
\layout Itemize


\shape italic 
DataStudio
\shape default 
 software (Calorimetry)
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Introduction
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

Calorimetry is a method for measuring heat.
 As applied in this experiment, the method involves the mixing together
 of substances initially at two different temperatures.
 The substances at the higher temperature lose heat and the substances at
 the lower temperature gain heat until thermal equilibrium is reached.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 1: Statement of Conservation of Energy
\layout Standard

If no heat is transferred to the surroundings, what is the relationship
 between the heat lost by the substances initially at high temperature and
 the heat gained by the substances initially at low temperature.
 Note: This is simply a statement of conservation of energy.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 324 252
file calorimetry_fig_1.eps
height 2 3.5
flags 9

\end_inset 

 
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Experimental Equipment
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

A calorimeter, shown in the above figure, is used in this experiment to
 minimize the exchange of heat between the system and the surroundings.
 The inner calorimeter cup is thermally insulated from the surroundings
 by suspending it on a ring of material with low heat conductivity and surroundi
ng it with a layer of air.
 Also the cup is shiny to minimize radiation loss.
 Hence, if the mixture of substances is placed inside the calorimeter cup,
 the heat lost to or gained from the surroundings can be ignored, and the
 above relationship can be used.
 The only part of the calorimeter which is involved in the calculation is
 the inner calorimeter cup which contains water and in which an exchange
 of heat between the hot and cold bodies takes place.
 The cup will undergo the same temperature change as the contained water.
 Of course, an instrument will have to be introduced to measure the temperature
 of the system, but the heat gained or lost by the instrument is small and
 can be ignored.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 2: Specific Heat of Aluminum
\layout Standard

(a) Fill the hypsometer (boiler) at least half full of water and start heating
 the water.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 10mm 
(b) Determine and record the mass of the hypsometer cup, m
\begin_inset Formula \( _{h} \)
\end_inset 

.
 Then fill it about half full with dry aluminum pellets.
 Determine and record the mass of the cup and pellets, m
\begin_inset Formula \( _{hp} \)
\end_inset 

, and calculate the mass of the pellets, m
\begin_inset Formula \( _{p} \)
\end_inset 

.
 Record the measurements in the space below.
\layout Standard

(c) Place the cup in the top of the hypsometer and put the temperature meter
 into the middle of the pellets.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 10mm 
(d) Determine and record the mass of the calorimeter cup, m
\begin_inset Formula \( _{c} \)
\end_inset 

.
 Fill this cup about half full of cold tap water.
 Determine and record the mass of the cup and water, m
\begin_inset Formula \( _{cw} \)
\end_inset 

, and calculate the mass of the water, m
\begin_inset Formula \( _{w} \)
\end_inset 

.
 Then place the calorimeter cup in the outer can and put the lid on.
\layout Standard

(e) Fill the plastic beaker with ice water.
 Open the 
\shape italic 
Calorimetry
\shape default 
 application in the 132 Workshop folder in the Apple menu and start collecting
 data.
 Place the temperature probe in the ice water and check that it is reading
 approximately 0
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{\circ } \)
\end_inset 

C.
 If not, then consult your instructor.
 Next, insert the temperature probe through the hole in the lid of the calorimet
er and into the water.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 10mm 
(f) When the temperature of the pellets becomes constant, at or near 100
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{\circ } \)
\end_inset 

C, stir the water in the calorimeter GENTLY with the thermocouple and record
 the temperature of the water as T
\begin_inset Formula \( _{w} \)
\end_inset 

.
 Also record the temperature of the pellets as T
\begin_inset Formula \( _{p} \)
\end_inset 

.
 Then remove the thermocouple from the calorimeter.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
(g) Now, quickly but carefully, pour the pellets into the water in the calorimet
er cup.
 Put the thermocouple back into the calorimeter cup.
 Stir the water occasionally with the thermocouple and monitor the temperature
 of the mixture.
 When the temperature levels off, record this value as T.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 2in 
(h) Write the complete heat equation and solve for the unknown specific
 heat of the metal.
 
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
(i) Look up the accepted value for the specific heat of aluminum and calculate
 the percent difference between this value and the one you determined above.
 Do the two values agree within experimental uncertainties.
 Comment on possible sources of error.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 3: Heat of Fusion of Ice
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 25mm 
(a) The heat of fusion of ice is found experimentally as follows: A known
 mass of warm water is placed in the calorimeter cup and its temperature
 recorded.
 A known mass of ice at 0
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{\circ } \)
\end_inset 

C (with no water) is added to the water and allowed to melt.
 The final temperature of the mixture after the ice has melted is recorded.
 Perform the experiment and record the data in the space below.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 25mm 
(b) Write the complete heat equation and solve for the unknown heat of fusion
 of ice.
\the_end
