#This file was created by <vineyard> Thu Jul 13 09:49:32 2000
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Section

Introduction to DataStudio
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Quick Reference Guide
\layout Standard

Shown below is the quick reference guide for DataStudio.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 565 540
file datastudio_fig1.eps
width 3 95
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\series bold 
Selecting a Section of Data
\layout Enumerate

To select a data section, hold the mouse button down and move the cursor
 to draw a rectangle around the data of interest.
 The data in the region of interest will be highlighted.
\layout Enumerate

To unselect the data, click anywhere in the graph window.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Fitting a Section of Data
\layout Enumerate

Select the section of data to be fitted.
\layout Enumerate

Click on the 
\series bold 
Fit
\series default 
 button on the Graph Toolbar and select a mathematical model.
 The results of the fit will be displayed on the graph.
\layout Enumerate

To remove the fit, click the 
\series bold 
Fit
\series default 
 button and select the checked function type.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Finding the Area Under a Curve
\layout Enumerate

Use the 
\series bold 
Zoom Select
\series default 
 button on the Graph Toolbar to zoom in around the region of interest in
 the graph.
 See the quick reference guide above for instructions.
\layout Enumerate

Select the section of data that you want to integrate under.
\layout Enumerate

Click the 
\series bold 
Statistics
\series default 
 button on the Graph Toolbar and select 
\series bold 
Area
\series default 
.
 The results of the integration will be displayed on the graph.
\layout Enumerate

To undo the integration, click on the 
\series bold 
Statistics
\series default 
 button and select 
\series bold 
Area
\series default 
.
\the_end
