#This file was created by <vineyard> Tue Jan  2 08:56:06 2001
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy

\layout Section

Heat, Temperature, and Internal Energy
\layout Standard

Name 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{2.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Section 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Date 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Objective
\layout Standard

To investigate the relationship between heat and temperature.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Apparatus
\layout Itemize

Hypsometer and stand 
\layout Itemize

Bunsen burner
\layout Itemize

Ice
\layout Itemize

Data Studio software and temperature probe
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Temperature of a Substance as a Function of Heat Transfer
\layout Standard

As part of our quest to understand heat energy transfer, temperature, and
 internal energy of a substance, let's consider the temperature change as
 ice is changed to water and then to steam.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 1: Predicting T vs.
 t for Water
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

Suppose you were to add heat at a constant rate to a container of ice water
 at 0
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{\circ } \)
\end_inset 

C until the water begins to boil.
 Sketch the predicted shape of the heating curve on the graph below using
 a dashed line.
 Mark the points at which the ice has melted and the water begins to boil.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 454 240
file heat_temp_int_energy_fig_1.eps
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 2: Measuring T vs.
 t for Water
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

(a) To test your prediction: 
\layout Enumerate

Fill the hypsometer (boiler) at least half full of ice water and suspend
 the temperature probe so that the end is submerged in the ice water but
 not touching the side or bottom of the hypsometer.
 
\layout Enumerate

Open the 
\shape italic 
Heat, Temp, & Internal Energy 
\shape default 
application in the 132 Workshop folder on the Apple menu.
\layout Enumerate

Light the burner and center it under the hypsometer.
 Click on the
\series bold 
 Start
\series default 
 button to begin recording data.
 The temperature of the water will be recorded on the graph shown on the
 monitor.
 While there is still ice, stir gently.
 
\layout Enumerate

After the water begins to boil, turn off the burner and stop collecting
 data using the 
\series bold 
Stop
\series default 
 button on the front panel.
 
\layout Enumerate

Sketch the shape of the measured heating curve on the above graph using
 a solid line.
 Ignore small variations due to noise and uneven heating.
 Mark the points at which the ice has melted and the water begins to boil.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
(b) Does your prediction agree with the measured heating curve? If not,
 what are the differences?
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
(c) What is the relationship between the temperature and the added heat
 while the ice is melting?
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
(d) What is the relationship between the temperature and the added heat
 after the ice has melted, but before the water begins to boil?
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
(e) What is the relationship between the temperature and the added heat
 while the water is boiling?
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
(f) If there are regions of the heating curve in which the temperature is
 not changing, what do you think is happening to the added heat in these
 regions?
\the_end
