#This file was created by <rhall2> Fri Dec 15 16:18:42 2000
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy

\layout Section

Charles' Law
\layout Standard

Name 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{2.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Section 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Date 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}+
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Objectives
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

To investigate the relationship between pressure and temperature for a constant
 mass of gas at constant volume.
 To determine the value of absolute zero.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Apparatus
\series default 
 
\layout Itemize

Charles law apparatus with stand
\layout Itemize

100
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{\circ } \)
\end_inset 

C thermometer
\layout Itemize

Barometer
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 176 266
file charles_law_fig_1.eps
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\series bold 
Introduction
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 50mm 
The experimental apparatus is shown in the figure above and consists of
 a graduated capillary tube sealed into a bulb containing dry air and mercury.
 The pressure on the air in the bulb is due to atmospheric pressure, pressure
 due to the column of Hg (S - B), and a capillary correction which, for
 this apparatus, is equal to 1.50 cm Hg.
 Thus, the pressure in cm Hg is given by P = P
\begin_inset Formula \( _{atm} \)
\end_inset 

 + (S - B) + 1.50.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 1: P-T Relationship for a Gas
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 120mm 
(a) Construct a data table in the space below with the column headings T
 (
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{\circ } \)
\end_inset 

C), S (cm), S - B (cm), and P (cm Hg).
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 30mm 
(b) Immerse the bulb in a beaker of cold water and stir the water with the
 100
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{\circ } \)
\end_inset 

C thermometer until the mercury level at S remains constant.
 Record the temperature of the water and the mercury level at S in the data
 table.
 Also, determine the atmospheric pressure, P
\begin_inset Formula \( _{atm} \)
\end_inset 

, and the mercury level at B, and record these values below.
 (The graduations at B and on the capillary tube are all one scale.
 The level at B need be read only once.
 Why?)
\layout Standard

(c) Now heat the water with a burner until its temperature has risen about
 5
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{\circ } \)
\end_inset 

, remove the burner and stir the water until the level at S stops rising.
 Record the temperature and the position of S in the table.
 Repeat this procedure at approximately 5 to 7 degree intervals until the
 boiling point of the water is approached.
\layout Standard

(d) Calculate S - B and P for each set of values and record the results
 in the data table.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 30mm 
(e) Graph P (y axis) vs.
 T and fit the data to determine the relationship.
 Print the graph and attach a copy to the unit.
 Write the expression for the pressure as a function of temperature in the
 space below.
 State in words the relationship between P and T.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity 2: Absolute Zero and the Kelvin Scale
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 30mm 
(a) The absolute zero of temperature can be defined as the temperature at
 which the pressure of an ideal gas is zero.
 Determine absolute zero from the equation you obtained by fitting your
 P-T data.
\layout Standard
\added_space_bottom 30mm 
(b) Determine the percent difference between your value of absolute zero
 and the accepted value of -273
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{\circ } \)
\end_inset 

C.
 Do the two values agree within experimental uncertainty?
\layout Standard

(c) Change your Celsius temperature readings to the Kelvin scale and create
 a graph of P vs.
 T (
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{\circ } \)
\end_inset 

K).
 Fit the data to find an equation for P as a function of T (
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{\circ } \)
\end_inset 

K).
 Write the equation in the space below and state the relationship between
 P and T (
\begin_inset Formula \( ^{\circ } \)
\end_inset 

K) in words.
 Also, print the graph and attach a copy to the unit.
 
\the_end
