#This file was created by <vineyard> Mon Jul 17 13:35:01 2000
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Section

Instrumentation
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Introduction
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
Being both quantitative and experimental, physics is basically a science
 of measurement.
 A great deal of effort has been expended over the centuries improving the
 accuracy with which the fundamental quantities of length, mass, time, and
 charge can be measured.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
It is important that the appropriate instrument be used when measuring.
 Ordinarily, a rough comparison with a numerical scale, taken at a glance
 and given in round numbers, is adequate.
 Increasing precision, though, requires a more accurate scale read to a
 fraction of its smallest division.
 The ``least count'' of an instrument is the smallest division that is marked
 on the scale.
 This is the smallest quantity that can be read directly without estimating
 fractions of a division.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
Even at the limit of an instrument's precision, however, accidental errors---
 which cannot be eliminated---still occur.
 These errors result in a distribution of results when a series of seemingly
 identical measurements are made.
 The best value, known as the most probable value, is the arithmetic mean
 or average of the measurements.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
Other errors, characteristic of all instruments, are known as systematic
 errors.
 These can be minimized by improving the equipment and by taking precautions
 when using it.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Length Measurement
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
Three instruments will be available in this class for length measurements:
 
\backslash 
hspace{3pt} a ruler (one- or two-meter sticks, for example), the vernier
 caliper, and the micrometer caliper.
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
The Meter Stick
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
A meter stick, by definition, is 1 meter (m) long.
 Its scaled is divided, and numbered, into 100 centimeters (cm).
 Each centimeter, in turn, is divided into 10 millimeters.
 Thus 1 cm = $10^{-2}$ m, and 1 mm = $10^{-1}$ cm = $10^{-3}$ m.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
When measuring a length with a meter stick, different regions along the
 scale should be used for the series of measurements resulting in an average
 value.
 This way, non-uniformities resulting from the meter stick manufacturing
 process will tend to cancel out and so reduce systematic errors.
 The ends of the stick, too, should be avoided, because these may be worn
 down and not give a true reading.
 Another error which arises in the reading of the scale is introduced by
 the positioning of the eyes, an effect known as parallax.
 Uncertainty due to this effect can be reduced by arranging the scale on
 the stick as close to the object being measured as possible.
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
The Vernier Caliper
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
A vernier is a small auxiliary scale that slides along the main scale.
 It allows more accurate estimates of fractional parts of the smallest division
 on the main scale.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
On a vernier caliper, the main scale, divided into centimeters and millimeters,
 is engraved on the fixed part of the instrument.
 The vernier scale, engraved on the movable jaw, has ten divisions that
 cover the same spatial interval as nine divisions on the main scale:
\backslash 
hspace{4pt} each vernier division is $
\backslash 
frac{9}{10}$ the length of a main scale division.
 In the case of a vernier caliper, the vernier division length is 0.9 mm.
 [See figures below.]
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
begin{center} 
\backslash 
setlength{
\backslash 
unitlength}{1pt} 
\backslash 
begin{picture}(330,125) 
\backslash 
put(2,120){
\backslash 
makebox(0,0)[bl]{0}} 
\backslash 
put(102,120){
\backslash 
makebox(0,0)[bl]{1}} 
\backslash 
multiput(10,100)(10,0){12}{
\backslash 
line(0,1){10}} 
\backslash 
multiput(9,96)(9,0){9}{
\backslash 
line(0,1){4}} 
\backslash 
put(50,100){
\backslash 
line(0,1){15}} 
\backslash 
put(45,93){
\backslash 
line(0,1){7}} 
\backslash 
put(50,75){
\backslash 
makebox(0,0)[b]{0.00}}
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
put(202,120){
\backslash 
makebox(0,0)[bl]{0}} 
\backslash 
put(302,120){
\backslash 
makebox(0,0)[bl]{1}} 
\backslash 
multiput(210,100)(10,0){12}{
\backslash 
line(0,1){10}} 
\backslash 
multiput(214,96)(9,0){9}{
\backslash 
line(0,1){4}} 
\backslash 
put(250,100){
\backslash 
line(0,1){15}} 
\backslash 
put(250,93){
\backslash 
line(0,1){7}} 
\backslash 
put(250,75){
\backslash 
makebox(0,0)[b]{0.05}}
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
put(84,45){
\backslash 
makebox(0,0)[bl]{1}} 
\backslash 
put(184,45){
\backslash 
makebox(0,0)[bl]{2}} 
\backslash 
multiput(92,25)(10,0){13}{
\backslash 
line(0,1){10}} 
\backslash 
multiput(114,21)(9,0){9}{
\backslash 
line(0,1){4}} 
\backslash 
put(132,25){
\backslash 
line(0,1){15}} 
\backslash 
put(150,18){
\backslash 
line(0,1){7}} 
\backslash 
put(150,0){
\backslash 
makebox(0,0)[b]{1.23}}
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
put(150,-20){
\backslash 
makebox(0,0)[b]{Examples of vernier caliper readings}}
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
thicklines 
\backslash 
multiput(0,100)(100,0){2}{
\backslash 
line(0,1){20}} 
\backslash 
multiput(0,90)(90,0){2}{
\backslash 
line(0,1){10}} 
\backslash 
put(0,100){
\backslash 
line(1,0){130}}
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
multiput(200,100)(100,0){2}{
\backslash 
line(0,1){20}} 
\backslash 
multiput(205,90)(90,0){2}{
\backslash 
line(0,1){10}} 
\backslash 
put(200,100){
\backslash 
line(1,0){130}}
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
multiput(82,25)(100,0){2}{
\backslash 
line(0,1){20}} 
\backslash 
multiput(105,15)(90,0){2}{
\backslash 
line(0,1){10}} 
\backslash 
put(80,25){
\backslash 
line(1,0){150}}
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
end{picture} 
\backslash 
end{center} 
\backslash 
medskip
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
To measure length with a vernier caliper, close the jaws on the object and
 read the main scale at the position indicated by the zero-line of the vernier.
 The fractional part of a main-scale division is obtained from the first
 vernier division to coincide with a main scale line.
 [See examples above.]
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
If the zero-lines of the main and vernier scales do not coincide when the
 jaws are closed, all measurements will be systematically shifted.
 The magnitude of this shift, called the zero reading or zero correction,
 should be noted and recorded, so that length measurements made with the
 vernier caliper can be corrected, thereby removing the systematic error.
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
The Micrometer Caliper
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
A micrometer caliper is an instrument that allows direct readings to one
 hundredth of a millimeter and estimations to one thousandth of a millimeter
 or one millionth of a meter (and, hence, its name).
 It is essentially a carefully machined screw housed in a strong frame.
 To measure objects, place them between the end of the screw and the projecting
 end of the frame (the anvil).
 The screw is advanced or retracting by rotating a thimble on which is engraved
 a circular scale.
 The thimble thus moves along the barrel of the frame which contains the
 screw and on which is engraved a longitudinal scale divided in millimeters.
 The pitch of the screw is 0.5 mm, so that a complete revolution of the thimble
 moves the screw 0.5 mm.
 The scale on the thimble has 50 divisions, so that a turn of one division
 is $
\backslash 
frac{1}{50}$ of 0.5 mm, or 0.01 mm.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
Advance the screw until the object is gripped gently.
 Do not force the screw.
 A micrometer caliper is a delicate instrument.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
To read a micrometer caliper, note the position of the edge of the thimble
 along the longitudinal scale and the position of the axial line on the
 circular scale.
 The first scale gives the measurement to the nearest whole division; the
 second scale gives the fractional part.
 It takes two revolutions to advance one full millimeter, so note carefully
 whether you are on the first or second half of a millimeter.
 The result is the sum of the two scales.
 (See examples below).
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 232 253
file instrumentation_fig1.eps
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\latex latex 
As with the vernier caliper, the zero reading may not be exactly zero.
 A zero error should be checked for and recorded, and measurements should
 be appropriately corrected.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Mass Measurement
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
Three kinds of instruments will be available to determine mass: a digital
 scale and two types of balances.
 The operation of the first instrument is trivial, and so will not be explained
 here.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
Please understand that with each of these instruments we are really comparing
 weights, not masses, but the proportionality of weight and mass allows
 the instruments to be calibrated for mass.
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
The Equal-Arm Balance
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
The equal-arm balance has two trays on opposite sides of a pivot.
 The total mass placed on one tray required to balance the object on the
 other gives the mass of the object.
 Most equal-arm balances have a slider, as well, that can move along a scale
 and allow for greater precision than the smallest calibrated mass available.
 Typically, this scale has 0.5 g divisions.
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
The Triple-Beam Balance
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
The triple-beam balance, so-called because of its three slider scales, can
 be read to 0.1 g and estimated to half that.
 With an object on the tray, the masses of the different scales are slid
 to notches until balanced.
 Get close with the larger masses first and then fine-adjust with the smallest
 slider.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Time Measurement
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
Time measurements in this course will be made either with a computer or
 with a stop watch.
 This first is out of your control.
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
The Stop Watch
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
The stop watches you will use in class have a time range of from hours to
 hundredths of a second.
 There are two buttons at the top: a stop/start button and a reset button.
 The operation of these should be evident, although once the watch is reset,
 the reset button also starts the watch (but doesn't stop it).
 Please be aware of this feature.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Charge Measurements
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
The magnitude of charge is among the most difficult measurements to make.
 Instead a number of indirect measurements are undertaken to understand
 electric phenomena.
 These measurements are most often carried out with a digital multimeter
\layout Standard


\shape italic 
The Digital Multimeter
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
The digital multimeters available for laboratory exercises have pushbutton
 control to select five ac and dc voltage ranges, five ac and dc current
 ranges, and six resistance ranges.
 The ranges of accuracy are 100 microvolts to 1200 volts ac and dc, 100
 nanoamperes to 1.999 amperes ac and dc, and 100 milliohms to 19.99 megaohms.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
To perform a DC voltage measurement, select the DCV function and choose
 a range maximum from one of 200 millivolts or 2, 20, 200, or 1200 volts.
 Be sure the input connections used are V-$
\backslash 
Omega$ and COMMON.
 The same is true for AC voltage, regarding range and inputs, but the ACV
 function button should be selected.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
For DC current choose DC MA (for DC milliamperes), while for AC current
 choose AC MA.
 Your choices for largest current are 200 microamperes or 2, 20, 200, or
 2000 milliamperes.
 Check that the input are connected to MA and COMMON.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 
There are two choices for resistance measurement: Kilohms (K$
\backslash 
Omega$) and Megohms (20M$
\backslash 
Omega$).
 The input connectors are the same as when measuring voltage, namely V-$
\backslash 
Omega$ and COMMON.
 The range switches do not function with the Megohm function, but one of
 the range buttons must be set.
 The maximum settings for Kilohm readings are 200$
\backslash 
Omega$ or 2, 20, 200, or 2000k$
\backslash 
Omega$.
\the_end
