#This file was created by <vineyard> Tue Jan  2 13:52:49 2001
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy

\layout Section

Refraction of Light
\layout Standard

Name 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{2.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Section 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\latex default 

\hfill 
Date 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
rule{1.0in}{0.1pt}
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Objective
\layout Standard

To investigate the path traveled by light through a plate of plexiglass
 (a transparent solid material).
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Introduction
\layout Standard

The speed of light depends on the medium in which it travels.
 In passing from one medium, at least some light energy is reflected.
 If the second medium is transparent, most of the light will pass into and
 through it.
 If the beam is not perpendicular to the boundary between the two media,
 it will bend as it enters, an effect known as refraction.
 The direction a single ray of light travels when refracted is given by
 Snell's law:
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
begin{displaymath} 
\backslash 
frac{sin~i}{sin~r} = 
\backslash 
frac{v_1}{v_2} = 
\backslash 
frac{n_2}{n_1} 
\backslash 
end{displaymath}
\layout Standard

where
\layout Quote

i = incident angle
\layout Quote

r = refracted angle
\layout Quote

v
\begin_inset Formula \( _{1} \)
\end_inset 

 = light speed in medium 1
\layout Quote

v
\begin_inset Formula \( _{2} \)
\end_inset 

 = light speed in medium 1
\layout Quote

n
\begin_inset Formula \( _{1} \)
\end_inset 

 = index of refraction of medium 1 
\layout Quote

n
\begin_inset Formula \( _{2} \)
\end_inset 

 = index of refraction of medium 2
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Note
\series default 
: All angles are measured from the normal to the boundary at the point the
 ray enters the medium.
 The index of refraction is the ratio of light's speed in a vacuum, 
\latex latex 
$c$
\latex default 
, to its speed in the medium, 
\latex latex 
$v$
\latex default 
: 
\latex latex 
$n = c / v$
\latex default 
.
 It is worth remembering that 
\latex latex 
$n_{air} 
\backslash 
approx 1.00$
\latex default 
.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 249 265
file refraction_of_light_fig_1.eps
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard
\added_space_top 15mm 

\series bold 
Apparatus
\series default 
 
\layout Itemize

light fence 
\layout Itemize

plexiglass block 
\layout Itemize

white paper, pins, and wood board 
\layout Itemize

protractor
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Activity
\series default 
 
\layout Enumerate

Put a plexiglass plate at the center of a piece of paper.
 Outline its position.
 Identify a normal, 
\latex latex 
$N_1$
\latex default 
, perpendicular to an edge of the plate.
\layout Enumerate

Arrange the light source apparatus so that the parallel rays of light cross
 the paper and are incident at a 
\latex latex 
$30^
\backslash 
circ$
\latex default 
-
\latex latex 
$35^
\backslash 
circ$
\latex default 
 angle to the normal.
 Trace one of these rays.
\layout Enumerate

Sight the corresponding ray as it emerges from the other side of the plexiglass.
 Trace this ray.
\layout Enumerate

Construct the normal, 
\latex latex 
$N_2$
\latex default 
.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
Measure and record 
\latex latex 
$i$
\latex default 
, 
\latex latex 
$r$
\latex default 
, 
\latex latex 
$i'$
\latex default 
, and 
\latex latex 
$r'$
\latex default 
.
 Compute and record 
\latex latex 
$n_{plexiglass}$
\latex default 
.
\layout Enumerate

Repeat the above procedure for different incident angles of between 
\latex latex 
$25^
\backslash 
circ$
\latex default 
 and 
\latex latex 
$40^
\backslash 
circ$
\latex default 
.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 20mm 
Calculate and record an average 
\latex latex 
$n_{plexiglass}$
\latex default 
.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Does 
\latex latex 
$i = i'$
\latex default 
? Explain.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Does 
\latex latex 
$r = r'$
\latex default 
? Explain.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Are the incident and exit rays parallel? Explain.
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
What is the speed of light in the plexiglass?
\layout Enumerate
\added_space_bottom 15mm 
Under what conditions would a refraction angle be greater than an incident
 angle?
\the_end
