#This file was created by <vineyard> Wed Jul 12 10:26:08 2000
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Section

Video Analysis
\layout Standard

Making a Movie To make a movie, perform the following steps:
\layout Enumerate

Start up 
\shape italic 
Adobe Premier
\shape default 
 by going to the Apple Menu in the upper left corner of the screen and click
 and drag down to highlight 
\shape italic 
Adobe Premier alias
\shape default 
.
\layout Enumerate

After 
\shape italic 
Premier
\shape default 
 starts highlight the 
\series bold 
File
\series default 
 menu and drag down to highlight 
\series bold 
Capture
\series default 
 and drag over to highlight 
\series bold 
Movie Capture
\series default 
.
\layout Enumerate

As the film capture starts 
\shape italic 
Premier
\shape default 
 will ask you if you want to deactivate AppleTalk.
 Deactivate it so the film capture will be smoother.
 If the video camera is hooked up, then live video will start playing in
 the window.
 If not, consult your instructor.
\layout Enumerate

You should always have the camera about 1 m from the object you will be
 viewing.
 This constraint is required to reduce the effect of perspective for objects
 viewed near the edge of the field-of-view.
 Point the camera so that its field-of-view is centered on the expected
 region where you will perform the experiment.
 
\layout Enumerate

During the analysis of the movie (see next section) we need to determine
 the size and position of objects in the movie.
 Place a ruler or some object of known size in the field-of-view where it
 won't interfere with the experiment.
 The object should be the same distance away from the camera as the motion
 so the horizontal and vertical scales will be accurately determined.
 It should also be parallel to one of the sides of the movie frame as viewed
 with 
\shape italic 
Premier
\shape default 
.
 
\layout Enumerate

One member of your group should perform the computer tasks while the others
 do the experiment.
 To record the experiment click the record button in the video window.
 Wait a few of seconds and perform the experiment.
\layout Enumerate

After the experiment is complete click the mouse anywhere to stop the recording.
 You will see a new window with your recorded movie.
 Use the controls along the bottom of the frame to view the film to make
 sure it is satisfactory.
\layout Enumerate

Choose 
\series bold 
Save As...
 
\series default 
from the 
\series bold 
File
\series default 
 menu to save the movie to disk.
 A dialog box will appear.
 Select the 131 Workshop folder from the Macintosh HD window and click 
\series bold 
Open
\series default 
.
 Type a name for the movie file and click 
\series bold 
Save
\series default 
.
\layout Enumerate

Choose 
\series bold 
Quit
\series default 
 from the 
\series bold 
File
\series default 
 menu.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Analyzing the Movie
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

To determine the position of an object at different times during the motion,
 perform the following steps:
\layout Enumerate

Start up 
\shape italic 
VideoPoint
\shape default 
 by going to the Apple Menu in the upper left corner of the screen and click
 and drag down to highlight 
\shape italic 
VideoPoint alias
\shape default 
.
 Click the mouse in the window titled About VideoPoint".
\layout Enumerate

Click on 
\series bold 
Open Movie
\series default 
 and select the desired file.
\layout Enumerate


\shape italic 
VideoPoint
\shape default 
 will request the number of objects you want to track in the movie.
 Carefully read the instructions for the unit you are working on to find
 this number.
 Enter it in the space provided.
 You will now see several windows.
 One contains the movie and has control buttons and a slider along the bottom
 of the frame to control the motion of the film.
 Experiment with these controls to learn their function.
 Another window below the movie frame contains position and time data and
 a third window to the right of the frame describes the coordinate system
 in use.
\layout Enumerate

This is a good time to calibrate the scale.
 Go to a frame where an object of known size is clearly visible (see item
 5 in the previous section).
 Under the 
\series bold 
Movie
\series default 
 menu highlight 
\series bold 
Scale Movie
\series default 
.
 A dialog box will appear.
 Enter the length of the object and set 
\series bold 
Scale Type
\series default 
 to 
\series bold 
Fixed
\series default 
.
 Click 
\series bold 
Continue
\series default 
.
 Move the cursor over the frame and click on the ends of scaling object.
\layout Enumerate

You are now ready to record the position and time data.
 Go to the first frame of interest.
 Move the cursor over the frame and it will change into a small circle with
 an attached label.
 Place the circle over the object of interest in the frame and click.
 The x and y positions will be stored and the film advanced one frame.
 Move the circle over the position of the object in the frame and repeat.
 Continue this process until you have mapped out the motion of the object.
 If you entered more than one object to keep track of when you opened the
 movie, then you will click on all those objects in each frame before the
 film advances.
\layout Enumerate

When you have entered all the points you want, click on the Data Table window
 below the movie frame.
 Scroll down through the data table to find your data.
 Click and drag across all the rows and columns of the entries to highlight
 all of your data.
 Under the 
\series bold 
Edit 
\series default 
menu highlight 
\series bold 
Copy
\series default 
.
\layout Enumerate

Start up 
\shape italic 
Cricket Graph
\shape default 
 by going to the Apple Menu in the upper left corner of the screen and click
 and drag down to highlight 
\shape italic 
Cricket Graph alias
\shape default 
.
 You will see a window with a set of blank rows and columns.
 Click the mouse in the upper left box and under the 
\series bold 
Edit
\series default 
 menu highlight 
\series bold 
Paste
\series default 
.
 The data your just copied from 
\shape italic 
VideoPoint
\shape default 
 should now fill the table and you can analyze it with the methods described
 in 
\series bold 
Appendix C: Introduction to Cricket Graph
\series default 
.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Changing the Origin
\series default 
 
\layout Standard

To change the position of the origin take the following steps.
\layout Enumerate

Click on the arrow icon near the top of the menu bar to the left.
 The cursor will be shaped like an arrow when you place it on the movie
 frame.
 
\layout Enumerate

Click at the origin (where the axes cross) and drag the origin to the desired
 location.
 
\layout Enumerate

Click on the circle at the top of the menu bar to the left to return to
 the standard cursor for marking points on the film.
 
\layout Standard

Using a Moving Coordinate System 
\layout Standard

To record the position of an object and to change the coordinate system
 from frame to frame take the following steps.
\layout Enumerate

Open the movie as usual and enter one object to record.
 First we have to select the existing origin and change it from a fixed
 one to a moving one.
 Click on the arrow near the top of the menu bar to the left.
 The cursor will have the shape of an arrow when you place it on the movie
 frame.
 Click on the existing origin (where the axes cross) and it will be highlighted.
\layout Enumerate

Under the 
\series bold 
Edit
\series default 
 menu drag down and highlight 
\series bold 
Edit Selected Series
\series default 
.
 A dialog box will appear.
 Click on the box labelled 
\series bold 
Data Type
\series default 
 and highlight the selection 
\series bold 
Frame-by-Frame
\series default 
.
 Click OK.
\layout Enumerate

Click on the circle at the top of the menu bar to the left to change the
 cursor back to the usual one for marking points.
 Go to the first frame of interest.
 When the cursor is placed in the movie frame it will be labelled with Point
 S1".
 Click on the object of interest.
 The film will NOT advance and the label on the cursor will change to Origin
 1".
 Click on the desired location of the origin in that frame.
 The film will advance as usual.
 Repeat the procedure to accumulate the x- and y-positions relative to the
 origin you've defined in each frame.
\the_end
